john blair and company is close to an agreement to sell its t. v. station advertising representation operation and program production unit to an investor group led by james h. rosenfield a former c. b. s. incorporated executive industry sources said
industry sources put the value of the proposed acquisition at more than one hundred million dollars
john blair was acquired last year by reliance capital group incorporated which has been divesting itself of john blair's major assets
john blair represents about one hundred thirty local television stations in the placement of national and other advertising
mr. rosenfield stepped down as a senior executive vice president of c. b. s. broadcasting in december nineteen eighty five under a c. b. s. early retirement program
neither mr. rosenfield nor officials of john blair could be reached for comment
south korea posted a surplus on its current account of four hundred nineteen million dollars in february in contrast to a deficit of one hundred twelve million dollars a year earlier the government said
the current account comprises trade in goods and services and some unilateral transfers
commercial vehicle sales in italy rose eleven point four percent in february from a year earlier to eight thousand eight hundred forty eight units according to provisional figures from the italian association of auto makers
industrial production in italy declined three point four percent in january from a year earlier the government said
canadian manufacturers' new orders fell to twenty point eight oh billion dollars canadian in january down four percent from december's twenty one point six seven billion dollars on a seasonally adjusted basis statistics canada a federal agency said
the decrease followed a four point five percent increase in december
manufacturers' shipments followed the same trend falling one point five percent in january to twenty one point oh eight billion dollars after a two point eight percent increase the previous month
the agency said there is some indication of an upturn in the recent irregular pattern of shipments following the generally downward trend recorded during the first half of nineteen eighty six
boeing company said its boeing computer services company unit received a contract valued at about one hundred fourteen million dollars over its first five years to provide computer equipment and services for the national aeronautics and space administration marshall space flight center in huntsville alabama
the contract begins in may with an initial one year term with renewal options for nine additional years
the contract consolidates twenty six existing contracts that boeing computer services has with n. a. s. a. major subcontractors are unisys based in detroit and new technology incorporated huntsville alabama boeing said
the computer services subsidiary of boeing a defense contractor and maker of commercial aircraft began performing mission services at marshall in nineteen eighty one
wyman gordon company said it plans to invest eleven point seven million dollars in two projects that will improve its capability in metals technology
the maker of forgings said it will install a plasma cold hearth refining system in its millbury massachusetts facility to produce nickel base alloy powder metal and titanium alloy electrodes
it also plans to modify its thirty five thousand ton hydraulic forging press in its grafton massachusetts plant so that it will be able to perform an extrusion process
macmillan bloedel limited said it plans to redeem all of its nine percent series j. debentures outstanding april twenty seventh
the forest products company fifty percent owned by noranda incorporated toronto said the debentures were issued in europe and were due february first nineteen ninety two
rogers corporation a maker of parts for the electronics industry said its board approved a rights plan designed to protect holders in the event of a hostile takeover attempt
the company said it isn't aware of any takeover interest
rogers said the rights under certain circumstances entitle holders to buy shares in rogers or in a surviving company at half price
revlon group incorporated said it completed the acquisition of the u. s. cosmetics business of germaine monteil cosmetiques corporation a unit of london based beecham group p. l. c.
terms weren't disclosed but industry sources said the price was about two point five million dollars
the sale includes the rights to germaine monteil in north and south america and in the far east as well as the worldwide rights to the diane von furstenberg cosmetics and fragrance lines and u. s. distribution rights to lancaster beauty products
revlon is a cosmetics concern and beecham is a pharmaceutical concern
texas instruments incorporated said it expects to begin construction on a three hundred eighty thousand square foot plant next month near denton texas
the company said the plant will be completed by late nineteen eighty eight and will employ between one thousand and one thousand five hundred people
the plant will be used by texas instruments' defense systems and electronics group to produce electronic equipment
patten corporation said it is negotiating a possible joint venture with hearst corporation of new york and anglo french investor sir james goldsmith to sell land on the east coast
patten which buys and sells parcels of undeveloped land in the northeast said it would help hearst and mr. goldsmith sell land holdings along the eastern seaboard
but the company wouldn't elaborate
nothing has been agreed to said donald dion executive vice president and treasurer
hearst corporation wouldn't comment and mr. goldsmith couldn't be reached
in new york stock exchange composite trading friday patten's shares rose two point three seven five dollars to twenty five point three seven five dollars
mr. dion explaining the recent increase in the stock price said obviously it would be very attractive to our company to work with these people
merrill lynch and company said it extended an existing agreement with quotron systems incorporated for financial information and quote services while it awaits delivery of a competing service
as previously reported automatic data processing incorporated roseland n. j. is developing a customized quote service for merrill lynch's brokerage operations
terms of the contract haven't been disclosed
quotron a unit of new york based citicorp said that under the revised contract it will continue to supply services to merrill lynch offices through november nineteen eighty nine
merrill lynch also has an option to extend the agreement through february nineteen ninety three
separately automatic data said it agreed with merrill lynch on specifications for the new system
automatic data said it expects to begin installing the new system by year's end and to complete the installation in about two years
a merrill lynch spokesman called the revised quotron agreement a prudent management move it gives us a little flexibility
guest supply incorporated said it and some of its officers and directors are facing a shareholder suit in federal court
the supplier of personal care products for hotels said that the suit filed in u. s. district court for the district of new jersey alleges misrepresentations and omissions in the prospectus for the company's initial public offering last september
the suit seeks class action status on behalf of other company shareholders
guest supply said that the claims are without merit and that it will contest the action
universal resources corporation said holders approved the previously announced acquisition by questar corporation of the four point seven million universal shares questar doesn't already own
under terms of the acquisition questar will purchase the shares for three dollars each or fourteen point two million dollars
questar a salt lake city based energy company already has a fifty three point four percent stake in universal also an energy company
separately universal said its fifteen and three quarters percent debentures due december fifteenth nineteen ninety six will be redeemed april nineteenth
the redemption price for the debentures of which about thirty four million dollars is outstanding will equal one hundred four point eight percent of the face value plus accrued interest
commercial credit company said its american health and life insurance company unit signed a contract to sell part of its business to american national insurance company of galveston texas for thirty nine million dollars
the transaction is subject to regulatory approval
the financial services company said about one hundred employees of american health will lose their jobs after the sale is completed in august
american national will assume the business of universal and life insurance
the latest action will complete the restructuring phase that commercial credit began in december nineteen eighty six
american health will now specialize in credit related life and health insurance products as well as annuities
stanley interiors corporation said it expects its first quarter net income to be about the same as the two hundred eighty six thousand dollars or fourteen cents a share posted a year earlier
the maker of furniture and fabrics said it earlier expected first quarter net to exceed the year ago profit but snowstorms in january and february forced the company to close some manufacturing facilities for as long as six days
the closings reduced operating profit but that was substantially offset by reduced interest expenses the company said
stanley said it doesn't anticipate a permanent loss of sales because of the closings
substantially all the delayed shipments should be made in the second quarter the company said
seagram company said it realigned its fine wine operations following the recent sale of its medium priced table wine business
seagram vintners the division that included all fine wine operations was dissolved
seagram vintners had included two units seagram classics wine company and seagram chateau and estate wines company and those two units will continue to run the fine wine operations
seagram classics wine which includes the distiller's california wines will relocate from new york to the san francisco area
samuel bronfman the second thirty three years old will continue as president of the unit
james l. bareuther forty two continues as executive vice president in charge of sales and marketing and michael e. harbison thirty three was named executive vice president in charge of finance
mr. harbison formerly held the same position at seagram wine company the table wine unit that was sold
seagram chateau and estate wines which imports european wines will continue to be based in new york
abdallah h. simon sixty four remains the unit's chairman
both mr. bronfman and mr. simon will report to david g. sacks president and chief operating officer of seagram
pubco corporation said its board approved an anti takeover plan involving the distribution of stock purchase rights to shareholders
under the plan the holder of each common share will receive on march thirty first the right to buy one additional share for three dollars
the rights are exercisable if a suitor acquires or makes a tender offer for at least twenty percent of the stock
pubco a holding company with interests that include printing and real estate rental said the plan is to ensure fair treatment of all holders in the event of a takeover and to guard against abusive takeover tactics
pubco added that it isn't aware of any current takeover interest in the company
pubco shares closed friday at ninety three point seven five cents up twelve point five cents in national over the counter trading
a seat on the chicago board options exchange was sold for three hundred forty thousand dollars up five thousand dollars from the previous sale march eleventh
seats currently are quoted at three hundred thirty thousand dollar bid three hundred forty five thousand dollars asked
the record price of three hundred forty two thousand dollars for a full membership on the exchange was set february twenty seventh
the federal farm credit banks funding corporation plans to offer one point seven billion dollars of bonds thursday
the offering will include five hundred forty million dollars of bonds due july first and one point one six billion dollars of bonds maturing october first
all the bonds will be dated april first and interest rates on the securities will be announced wednesday
proceeds will be used to retire bonds maturing april first and to finance operations
the offerings will be made through the corporation and a nationwide group of securities dealers and dealer banks
john a. krol was named group vice president agriculture products department of this diversified chemicals company succeeding dale e. wolf who will retire may first
mr. krol was formerly vice president in the agriculture products department
canadian farmers are expected to seed thirty two point six million acres of wheat this year a seven point two percent decline from last year's record thirty five point one million acres statistics canada a federal agency said
the agency said barley acreage is expected to increase nine point nine percent to thirteen point eight million acres from twelve point six million last year
barley is canada's major feed grain and the estimated nineteen eighty seven acreage is the largest since nineteen seventy one
rapeseed acreage is expected to decline three percent to six point seven million acres from six point nine million last year
rapeseed also known as canola is canada's main oilseed crop
yankee companies said it expects to post a one point five million dollar loss from discontinued operations possibly in its third quarter ending march thirty first
the anticipated loss will stem from plans of a subsidiary eskey incorporated to sell the assets and business of its yale e. key incorporated unit to a group of that company's managers and a private investor for about fifteen point five million dollars
yale e. key is a well service concern
in the year ago third quarter yankee had net income of seven hundred sixty two thousand dollars or twelve cents a primary share on revenue of fifty one point six million dollars
earnings included a six hundred fifteen thousand dollar write down of an investment
yankee an energy and financial services concern said the sale is part of its plan to focus on its core businesses and reduce its total indebtedness
the company expects the sale to be completed later this month but said it still requires a definitive agreement
john f. boehm formerly president of ashland oil incorporated's valvoline oil company unit was named to the new post of chairman and chief executive officer of the subsidiary
mr. boehm sixty years old will be succeeded by john d. barr thirty nine formerly executive vice president who will also hold the additional title of chief operating officer
valvoline based in lexington kentucky is the nation's number three marketer of motor oil
ashland refines and markets oil
canada's seasonally adjusted consumer price index rose zero point three percent in february statistics canada a federal agency said
the february rise followed increases of zero point two percent in january and zero point four percent in december
bankeast corporation said it signed a non binding letter of intent to acquire first federal bank of nashua n. h. for about thirty five million dollars
in the proposed transaction each of first federal's common shares would be converted into sixty dollars of bankeast common stock
bankeast said each first federal common share would be swapped for two point nine to three point five bankeast common shares
this is subject to certain adjustments including ones based on first federal's earnings before the closing date bankeast said
first federal which has about two hundred seventy million dollars in assets currently has five hundred sixty six thousand one hundred common shares outstanding
bankeast has about ten million common shares outstanding and assets of one point oh five billion dollars
john snow bankeast's president said his company has been interested in the nashua market
the acquisition provides an opportunity for bankeast to develop more substantially in that market he said
we now have a relatively small presence there
bankeast said it hopes to complete the acquisition by year's end
john o'brien first federal president said he regards bankeast as a very good banking organization
he said bankeast's offer appears to be attractive to the bank's shareholders
first federal's shareholders still must vote on the acquisition which also requires the execution of a definitive agreement and approval from regulators
in national over the counter trading friday bankeast shares fell twenty five cents to sixteen dollars and fifty cents
ohio power company a unit of american electric power company said it will redeem thirty four point four million dollars of its first mortgage bonds june first
ohio power said the transactions involve the partial redemption of two issues thirty three million dollars of its ten percent bonds due two thousand six and one point four million dollars of its twelve and seven eighths percent bonds due two thousand thirteen
the price will be par plus accrued interest for the ten percent series
ohio edison company seeking to lessen the financial impact of the perry nuclear plant said it completed a sale leaseback transaction for a portion of its ownership in the plant
under the arrangement the utility sold about thirty percent of its stake in one of the northern ohio plant's two reactors the one point two million kilowatt unit one to a group of institutional investors led by citicorp a new york bank holding company
ohio edison owns about thirty percent of the unit
ohio edison said the investors will pay it five hundred nine million dollars for the stake then lease it back for twenty nine years at a rate estimated at eight point five percent to nine percent of the cash payment
the perry plant whose ownership is split among several utilites has been dogged by construction delays and cost overruns
ohio edison's outside auditors citing uncertainties over whether the utility could recover the construction costs of the plant qualified both its nineteen eighty five and nineteen eighty six financial statements
ohio edison said the proceeds from the sale will finance the balance of its nineteen eighty seven construction program and repay bank loans incurred for the retirement of high interest long term debt
the utility added that it plans later this year to ask the public utilities commission of ohio to allow it to recover the cost of perry
ohio edison said the transaction will allow the equity investors to take advantage of federal tax benefits
the following issues recently were filed with the securities and exchange commission
markitstar incorporated one point seven million common shares
of the total one point five million will be sold by the company and the rest by shareholders via woolcott and company
atari corporation seventy five million dollars of convertible debentures due two thousand twelve via painewebber incorporated
stanley interiors corporation thirty million dollars of convertible debentures due two thousand twelve via salomon brothers incorporated
thermo electron corporation seventy five million dollars of convertible debentures due two thousand twelve via shearson lehman brothers incorporated
amax incorporated fifteen million seven hundred fifty seven thousand three hundred fifty common shares
of the total fifteen million shares will be sold by the company and the rest by a shareholder
underwriters led by first boston corporation will offer twelve million six hundred seven thousand three hundred fifty in the u.s.and credit suisse first boston limited will offer the balance outside the u. s.
weyerhaeuser company four million convertible exchangeable preference shares via morgan stanley and company
merryland and investment company two million common shares via johnson lane space smith and company
kansas city power and light company shelf filing of as much as one hundred million dollars of mortgage bonds
virginia electric power company a unit of dominion resources incorporated shelf filing for as many as one million three hundred fifty thousand preferred shares
first interstate bancorp shelf filing for as much as one point five billion dollars in debt securities
texaco incorporated said it reorganized certain of its oil exploration operations
the energy concern said it formed a frontier exploration department that will initiate and evaluate highly speculative oil opportunities for the company
frontier exploration was previously carried out by each of the company's regional divisions
texaco said the consolidation of these operations will allow the geographic divisions to focus on the more mature established oil basins
clarence p. cazalot thirty six years old was named general manager of the new department
he was formerly assistant to james w. kinnear texaco chairman
canrad incorporated expects declines in first quarter net income and sales but increases in the full year according to carl krieger chief executive officer
for the current quarter canrad a maker of microwave equipment and ultraviolet lamps and systems projects net income of about one hundred twenty thousand dollars or ten cents a share a seventy percent decline from year earlier net of four hundred nine thousand dollars or thirty four cents a share adjusted for a recent five percent stock dividend
sales are expected to decrease about eight percent to eight point five million dollars from nine point two million dollars a year earlier
a drop in incoming orders for its microwave equipment products used in the telecommunications industry is the major reason for canrad's poor performance in the first quarter mr. krieger said
microwave equipment is the company's largest selling item as well as its most profitable he noted
sales of the company's two other major products ultraviolet lamps and motion picture projection equipment are ahead of previous estimates he said
in spite of the poor performance in the first quarter canrad expects overall earnings and sales for nineteen eighty seven to be higher than the previous year
mr. krieger forecasts that earnings will increase about seven percent to one point six million dollars or one dollar and forty cents a share from one point five million dollars or one dollar and twenty nine cents a share in nineteen eighty six
sales are expected to increase about ten percent to forty million dollars from thirty six point six million dollars in nineteen eighty six
mr. krieger said that microwave equipment sales should be sharply higher in the second and third quarters
o. k. c. limited partnership said a federal appeals court in new orleans upheld a twenty one point five million dollar judgment against the company
as reported last april a federal district court in new orleans ruled against o. k. c. in a nineteen eighty one lawsuit filed by aminoil u. s. a. incorporated now part of phillips petroleum company
the court ruled that o. k. c. hadn't paid aminoil its full share of profits from an offshore petroleum lease that aminoil had farmed out to o. k. c.
the court ordered o. k. c. to pay phillips the profits plus interest which currently total about twenty one point five million dollars
o. k. c. said it plans to file a motion for a rehearing in an attempt to overturn the decision but the company said its chances of winning a rehearing are remote
the company said it doesn't expect the ruling to have a major impact on earnings because it had already set aside about fourteen million dollars in reserves to cover the judgment and reached an agreement for a bank loan to pay the balance
millard s. drexler forty two years old formerly executive vice president merchandising was named president of the apparel retailer succeeding donald g. fisher fifty eight who remains chairman and chief executive officer
super valu stores incorporated said it plans three hundred thirty million dollars in capital spending for fiscal nineteen eighty eight a nine percent decrease from the three hundred sixty three point seven million dollars spent in the year ended february twenty seventh
the food wholesaler and retailer said the new budget is down primarily because the previous budget included funding for such major projects as new distribution centers at new stanton pennsylvania and hammond louisiana
the company said the new budget provides for significant additions to a number of its distribution centers for upgrading computer equipment for ten new shopko discount department stores and for seventy million dollars in financing for its independent retailer customers
super valu said the largest portion of the budget one hundred eighty one point eight million dollars or fifty five percent will be allocated to its retail support operations
barbara c. m. dudley was named a director of this bank holding company increasing board membership to twenty seven
mrs. dudley is a former chairman of first albany corporation a securities firm
landmark bancshares will begin trading thursday on the new york stock exchange under the symbol lbc
the saint louis based bank holding company previously traded on the american stock exchange
three previously unreported issues began trading recently on the big board
valero natural gas partners l. p. based in san antonio texas began trading units under the symbol vlp
the natural gas pipeline and natural gas liquid company is a spinoff from valero energy corporation san antonio
valero energy retains a forty nine percent stake in the partnership
colonial municipal income trust a boston based closed end mangement investment company began trading under the symbol cmu
petrolane partners l. p. began trading units under the symbol lpg
the los angeles based company was formed to conduct the liquefied petroleum gas business of petrolane incorporated a unit of texas eastern corporation houston
texas eastern retains a forty five percent stake in the partnership
on the american stock exchange landmark technology corporation based in marietta georgia began trading under the symbol lco
the real estate services company formerly traded over the counter
ten new issues began trading over the counter recently
allied bankshares incorporated a thomson georgia based bank holding company began trading under the symbol abga
brinkmann instruments incorporated based in westbury connecticut began trading under the symbol brik
the company markets and distributes scientific instruments apparatus and disposables used for quality control of manufacturing processes and for environmental monitoring
corken international corporation based in oklahoma city began trading under the symbol cork
the company designs manufactures and markets pumps valves and compressors used in handling flammable and hazardous liquids and gases
the company was a one hundred percent owned unit of hinderliter industries incorporated tulsa oklahoma which retains an eighty point six percent stake
family group broadcasting l. p. began trading units under the symbol fgbpz
the tampa florida based company plans to acquire and operate television and radio stations
first federal savings and loan association of salt lake city began trading under the symbol ffut
m. m. r. holding corporation based in baton rouge louisiana began trading under the symbol mmrh
the company provides electrical and mechanical specialty contracting services to governmental industrial and commercial clients
magma copper company began trading class b. common stock on a when issued basis under the symbol mgcpv
the san manuel arizona based copper company is a spinoff from newmont mining corporation new york which is distributing an eighty percent interest in the new company
meridian insurance group incorporated an indianapolis based insurance holding company began trading under the symbol migi
rhone poulenc s. a. based in paris began trading american depositary receipts under the symbol rhpoy
each a. d. r. which is physically deposited abroad but owned in the u. s. represents one half of a preferred non voting share
the multi national company is engaged in the development production and marketing of chemicals pharmaceuticals synthetic fibers and films
r. p. scherer corporation based in troy michigan began trading preferred stock under the symbol schcp
the one point four three seven five dollars series a preferred stock is convertible at the rate of one point oh five nine three common shares for each preferred share
the company produces soft gelatin capsules for the pharmaceutical and nutritional supplements industry and develops drug formulation and delivery systems
the nuclear regulatory commission gave its staff the authority to allow consumers power company to return its palisades nuclear power plant to service after a ten month shutdown for safety work
the reactor has been idle since last may nineteenth when turbine problems triggered an automatic shutdown said joseph fouchard an n. r. c. spokesman
inspectors found three key safety related valves failed to operate properly that day
mr. fouchard said the reactor shutdown culminated a history of operating problems at palisades on lake michigan near south haven michigan
a spokesman for jackson michigan based consumers power said we're pleased
it brings the plant one step closer to restart
he said the company is confident that the n. r. c. staff will allow the utility to restart the plant once consumers power has satisfactorily completed certain tests
the commission voted five to zero to authorize its staff to permit a restart after the staff reported on improvements in plant maintenance
peter lund president of c. b. s. incorporated's four owned and operated television stations resigned to become president of new york based multimedia entertainment a unit of multimedia incorporated greenville s. c.
mr. lund is succeeding myron b. mike weinblatt who will remain at multimedia entertainment as a senior executive in charge of certain undisclosed development projects
mr. lund a ten year veteran of c. b. s. was president of c. b. s. sports before being named president of the t. v. stations division in december in a reorganization of the company's broadcasting operations
mr. lund forty six years old said he is leaving c. b. s. with mixed emotions my ten years here have been terrific
at multimedia entertainment he will oversee production and distribution of the unit's programs which include the phil donahue show
a company spokesman said a successor to mr. lund hadn't yet been named
stuart b. opotowsky was named vice president tax for this company with interests in insurance tobacco hotels and broadcasting
mr. opotowsky formerly a tax partner in a new york law firm succeeds the late stephen schwartz
stephen c. savage was named a corporate vice president and general manager of the newly formed electrical products division of this singer company spinoff that makes sewing machines and furniture
mr. savage was formerly a managing director at scovill incorporated
christopher t. linen and richard t. morgan were given the additional titles of corporate vice presidents of this publishing and cable television company
mr. linen is president and chief executive officer of time life books incorporated and mr. morgan is president and chief executive officer of scott foresman and company both subsidiaries of time
emerald homes l. p. declared an initial quarterly distribution of thirty cents on partnership units payable may fifteenth to units of record march thirty first
phoenix arizona based emerald which designs and sells single family homes had its initial public offering on february sixth
it has five million two hundred twenty five thousand units outstanding
virginia beach federal savings and loan association virginia beach virginia betty anne huey a virginia beach community leader was elected to the board of this thrift filling a vacancy created by the death of her father sidney s. kellam who was the association's founder
scandinavian airlines systems or s. a. s. will defer for several more months a decision on whether to switch its order for twelve new airplanes to airbus industrie of europe from mcdonnell douglas corporation of the u. s.
ulf abrahamsson s. a. s.'s vice president for fleet planning said the carrier wants to study more carefully offers from the two aircraft builders
he said s. a. s. also wants to determine the outcome of talks that could lead to the liberalization of air travel between the u. s. and scandinavia
s. a. s. hopes to receive approval from u. s. authorities to fly to an unlimited number of american destinations instead of the four u. s. cities it currently can serve
but mr. abrahamsson denied that s. a. s. was trying to use the jet order to pressure the u. s.
s. a. s. signed a letter of intent last december to purchase twelve mcdonnell douglas m. d. eleven jets for an estimated one point six billion dollars
but in january it received a proposal from airbus that it buy the european consortium's a. three forty jets
it said then that it would make a final decision by late march
however mr. abrahamsson said friday that the decision will be put off for a number of months
the new planes which would be delivered in the early nineteen nineties are to replace s. a. s.'s fleet of d. c. tens which at decade's end will total eleven
falcon cable systems company declared an initial quarterly distribution of fifty three point seven five cents on partnership units payable may fifteenth to units of record march thirty first
the pasadena california based limited partnership that owns cable television systems had its initial offering in december nineteen eighty six
it has five point eight million units outstanding
italy's unadjusted industrial production fell in january third point four percent from a year earlier but rose two point four percent from december the government said
asamera incorporated said it has agreed to sell three million common shares to raise about forty point nine million dollars canadian
the calgary alberta based oil and gas and mining company said the shares will be bought by merrill lynch canada incorporated for resale to the public at thirteen point six two five dollars each
details about the proceeds weren't immediately available
the company said the offering is subject to all necessary canadian and u. s. regulatory approvals and that a preliminary prospectus was filed friday
british government bond prices advanced one and two thirty seconds friday as the market continued to consolidate recent gains
dealers reported a little profit taking by domestic institutions and some unwinding of positions by major market makers who had prepared themselves for further japanese buying overnight
as it happened far eastern interest was limited
analysts said the market's performance was very resilient considering the nearly four point rally it staged following the release last week of britain's fiscal nineteen eighty eight budget
fixed rate eurodollar bonds were unchanged to up one eighth point on light turnover
most dollar denominated issues are suffering from a lack of interest traders said
investors remain skeptical about the dollar's prospects and recent data haven't presented a clear picture of where the u. s. economy stands
eurodollar bonds closed little changed and morgan guaranty limited tested a novel approach for repackaging perpetual floating rate euronotes
in new issues morgan guaranty took one hundred thirty million dollars of a total of five hundred million dollars of perpetual floating rate notes issued by westpac banking corporation a large australian bank and restructured the issue into two new securities a fifteen year floating rate note and a fifteen year zero coupon bond
the new fifteen year floating rate issue priced at one hundred point one oh adjusts semi annually at fifty basis points above the six month london interbank offered rate
the zero coupon class priced at twenty converts into the underlying westpac perpetual floating rate note at maturity
deutsche mark government and eurobond prices were up about one eighth to one quarter point falling back after gaining as much as one half point on fairly widespread buying interest at the start
dealers said most of the buying had come from japanese investors who had sought government bonds with nineteen ninety six and nineteen ninety seven maturities
swiss franc foreign bonds closed little changed as the recent rise in swiss interest rates continues to limit participation
guilford mills incorporated sold seventy five million dollars of six percent debentures priced at par and due september fifteenth two thousand twelve according to bear stearns and company chief underwriter
the securities are convertible at a rate of forty four dollars and twenty five cents of debentures for each common share
the greensboro n. c. based maker and seller of knit fabrics will use proceeds to pay debt and for general purposes
in composite trading on the new york stock exchange friday the company's common shares closed at thirty five point one two five dollars down twenty five cents
american cablesystems corporation said a subsidiary agreed in principle to acquire a cable television system in the los angeles area from heritage communications incorporated for fifteen point five million dollars
the subsidiary american cablesystems of california incorporated proposed to buy a system that serves eight communities in los angeles county and has about twelve thousand subscribers the parent said
upon completion of a final agreement the transaction is subject to approval from the municipalities involved
american cable systems has more than four hundred twenty five thousand subscribers in massachusetts new york florida illinois and california
heritage is a des moines iowa based cable t. v. and communications concern
morrison knudsen corporation said a unit received a contract valued at about two hundred million dollars to operate a west virginia surface coal mine for eleven and one half years
the award was made by a unit of algoma steel corporation limited sault saint marie ontario
morrison knudsen an engineering and construction concern said the contract contains an option for a ten year extension that if exercised would increase the value of the agreement to three hundred eighty five million dollars
morrison knudsen said production will begin at the mine later this year
gone are the days when the u. s. could quietly enjoy looking at east asia as its foreign policy trophy case
the new japans taiwan and south korea were thriving economically
china had shunned the soviets and befriended washington at small cost to taiwan
a year ago washington came out of the philippines mess smelling as sweet as that country's fresh democracy
now however foreign trade strains political turmoil in south korea the philippines' growing pains china's turn back toward communist orthodoxy and moscow's new diplomatic efforts in the area suddenly have created what state department officials call the new east asia challenge
one problem is that economic growth in much of the region hasn't been accompanied by political maturity
the u. s. challenge is to help prevent its friends' growing pains from becoming geopolitical nightmares
we've got to be prepared and look ahead says senator alan cranston d. california chairman of the subcommittee on east asian and pacific affairs
the u. s. must stress to leaders like south korean president chun doo hwan that long term stability can only be ensured through democracy not by force
it must increase its quiet diplomatic pressure on east asian states like taiwan and south korea to adjust their currencies and open their markets or risk u. s. protectionism that could cause political strains
we are in a transitional phase says richard holbrooke formerly a top state department official and currently a managing director at shearson lehman brothers incorporated
the economies in the region have been the strongest in the world but political stability must be maintained or their economic successes will suffer
he says the u. s. should focus its efforts on areas where it can have the most impact helping south korea create democracy and assisting the philippines in defending it
south korea is approaching what the u. s. hopes will be its first peaceful transition of power in february nineteen eighty eight just seven months before the summer olympics there
both the government and the opposition have refused to compromise on election reform
the u. s. has thus far balked at pressing the government too hard fearful that too quick a shift to full democracy could itself be destabilizing
but unless it does so president chun is likely to create a succession scenario that leaves the leadership under the military's influence
american officials believe long term stability in the philippines can only be ensured through more economic and military aid
the country needs some pump priming says j. brian atwood a former state department official who is now president of the national democratic institute
mr. holbrooke believes banks should move quickly to sort out the philippines debt problems to open doors for more foreign investment and borrowing
mr. atwood believes more weapons and funds for the military also are necessary if there is going to be a single source of instability it will be the loyalty of the military
trade tensions are a growing concern
if we get into a broad front trade war it could slow everyone down and change the political climate dramatically a state department official says
u. s. protectionist moves against asian countries could slow economic growth and breed anti americanism in the region
a senior official says the u. s. needs to stress that it won't accept only a marginal appreciation in the south korean and taiwanese currencies against the dollar at a time when the japanese yen has appreciated quickly
though japanese products have become more expensive in the u. s. there hasn't been a corresponding narrowing of the u. s. trade deficit because in many cases south korea and taiwan products which don't have the same price disadvantage have taken their place
the communist powers in asia also present challenges
washington must lower its expectations of china as beijing becomes more wary of western ways
u. s. officials believe china could assume a more neutral position between the two superpowers particularly if beijing's rising star vice premier li peng a soviet trained engineer who favors strong economic central planning takes over as premier as many expect
moscow hasn't scored the huge diplomatic success it is seeking with beijing but u. s. officials worry about mikhail gorbachev's proclivity for unexpected diplomatic actions
in mr. gorbachev we are facing a creative chess master says mr. atwood
he is willing to move into new areas and take risks be creative and keep us off balance
combined international corporation increased its quarterly dividend to sixty cents a share from fifty six cents payable may twenty sixth to stock of record may twelfth
the chicago based insurance holding concern also declared a two for one stock split subject to shareholder approval of a doubling in authorized common shares to one hundred twenty million and the creation of twenty five shares of a new class of preferred stock
the company had thirty two point nine million shares outstanding at december thirty first
holders are to vote at the april twenty third annual meeting
lac minerals limited said it will suspend underground operations at its lake shore mine in kirkland lake ontario effective april thirtieth
lac said it completed mining of the present ore body
lake shore in production since nineteen eighty three accounted for ten thousand six hundred ounces or about two point two percent of lac's nineteen eighty six gold output of four hundred seventy nine thousand two hundred sixty four ounces
the company said it doesn't expect the suspension to affect its earnings
lac said it will continue a two point five million dollar surface exploration program this year to determine whether further underground exploration is warranted
the suspension will affect forty four hourly and salaried employees lac said
on line software international incorporated based in fort lee n. j. sold forty million dollars of six and one quarter percent convertible debentures priced at par and due march fifteenth two thousand two head underwriter drexel burnham lambert incorporated said
the securities are convertible at a rate of twenty seven dollars and sixty one cents of debentures for each common share
proceeds will be used to repay bank debt incurred in the acquisition of certain assets of martin marietta corporation and to increase working capital
on line markets software for international business machines corp.systems
in over the counter trading friday on line common closed at twenty two dollars and twenty five cents down fifty cents
transamerica corporation said it agreed to sell its group insurance operations to chattanooga tennessee based provident life and accident company
last month the two companies canceled a previously reported letter of intent covering acquisition of the group operations
they cited a disagreement over terms but said talks would continue
the previous terms weren't ever disclosed
the transaction is expected to be completed by may first
the insurance and financial services concern said the sale to provident life is structured as a reinsurance transaction under which provident will assume responsibility for an estimated four hundred million dollars of policies and other liabilities
transamerica said it would record a seventy five million dollar net gain on the sale
but it said the gain would be largely offset by a charge to cover a change in accounting for amortizing deferred policy acquisition costs being made by its transamerica life companies unit
the company said the accounting change reflects a desire to state our books as conservatively as we can
separately transamerica said that its board authorized the buyback of as many as two point two million common shares or about three percent of its seventy two point seven million shares outstanding
the planned stock buyback is in addition to a previous buyback authorization under which the company still plans to acquire as many as one point five million shares
the company said the buybacks will be used for employee benefits and stock option plans
fedders corporation sold one point five million shares of one dollar and seventy five cent convertible exchangeable preferred stock at twenty five dollars each according to bear stearns and company the chief underwriter
the shares are convertible at a rate of nine dollars and fifty cents of preferred for each common share
in addition the preferred shares will be exchangeable after two years at the company's option for its seven percent convertible debentures due two thousand twelve
proceeds will be used to retire a note payable by fedders to its spun off subsidiary nycor incorporated to retire bank debt and for general purposes including possible acquisitions
peapack n. j. based fedders through its fedders air conditioning u. s. a. incorporated unit makes and sells air conditioners mainly for the residential market
in composite trding on the new york stock exchange friday fedders common closed at seven dollars and seventy five cents up twelve point five cents
domtar incorporated said it expects its capital spending this year to total eight hundred thirty eight million dollars canadian up seventy six percent from four hundred seventy five point two million dollars spent in nineteen eighty six
the construction materials and pulp and paper concern said in the prospectus for a proposed one hundred million dollar debenture offering that its recent three hundred thirty million dollar purchase of genstar corporation's u. s. gypsum wallboard business accounted for much of the increase
domtar also expects to spend two hundred forty seven million dollars this year on expansion of its fine paper mill in windsor quebec
the first phase of the eight hundred seventy million dollar project is expected to be completed by the end of the year
the company also plans to spend thirty six million dollars this year at its newsprint mill in dolbeau quebec as part of an eighty five million dollar project to change the plant's pulp operations to a new process
engelhard corporation said it plans to invest more than fifty million dollars to build a petroleum catalyst manufacturing facility in venezuela
the maker of specialty chemicals and metallurgical products said the project would be a joint venture with quifoven engelhard c. a. a venezuelan company in which engelhard has a forty percent stake
engelhard said it planned to increase its stake in the venezuelan concern to eighty percent over the next few years
the new facility would make twenty thousand metric tons a year of catalysts for use in the oil industry the company said
the catalysts are used to convert heavy crude oil into lighter crudes and petroleum products
engelhard said it plans to export sixty five percent of its production mainly to latin american countries
joseph perkins's defense of industrial homework editorial page march sixth was correct on only one point that employers use it to lower costs so they can underprice competitors
the employer unfairly passes on his overhead for rent machinery repairs and electricity to the worker piece rates invariably yield below the minimum wage in homework settings benefits are unheard of and even statutory benefits such as social security workers' compensation and unemployment compensation are typically evaded
the only disadvantage for the employer apart from the illegality is quality control since homework makes supervision and investment in sophisticated machinery impossible
however employers have a simple if crude method of quality control they don't pay for garments that don't meet standards or they send them back to be redone for no extra pay
knowing how advantageous homework is to the unscrupulous employer mr. perkins should have known better than to fall for norma kamali's fairy tale about the wonderful wages and conditions of her homeworkers
the kamali homeworkers with whom i. l. g. w. u. organizers have spoken at length tell a very different story
it was miss kamali who asked her workers to take work home not vice versa
miss kamali's homeworkers were paid piece rates that yielded two dollars an hour and less
they received no benefits and were ineligible for unemployment compensation when miss kamali had no work
the low piece rates forced them to work long hours and one had her children help sew
mr. perkins implies that there was a positive determination that there were no violations of the minimum wage
in fact no investigation was completed but one is under way
departments of labor often do not charge illegal homework employers because minimum wage violations are nearly impossible to prove
record keeping is nonexistent and homeworkers are frightened to speak up knowing that they may lose the little income they have or in the case of undocumented workers risk exposure to the immigration and naturalization service
the inability to enforce labor standards is the reason homework was banned in nineteen forty two and nineteen forty three in seven apparel related industries
mr. perkins asserts that sweatshop conditions are very rare today
in fact a resurgence of the sweatshop began in major cities in the latter nineteen seventies fueled by highly competitive conditions in the import battered garment industry and a vulnerable work force of recent immigrants
in the nineteen eighties farm distress has brought similar conditions to rural america
mr. perkins accuses our union of forcing manufacturers to go overseas by raising the cost of doing business in this country
the i. l. g. w. u. has fought for fair trade for many years for precisely the same reason we fight against homework
we do not believe that american workers should be forced to compete with inhumane standards
union garment workers earn modest wages about six dollars an hour but they cannot compete with workers overseas earning fifty cents and less or with homeworkers who make two dollars and pay their own overhead
america cannot be strong if competitiveness is regained on the backs of workers paid poverty wages to work long hours in sweatshop conditions
particularly disturbing to me was mr. perkins's assertion that homework violations are trivial and seldom produce charges of wage underpayment
it is important to understand that record keeping violations are not minor infractions records are essential to ensure that homeworkers receive the legal protection to which they are entitled
while mr. perkins accurately stated that a nineteen eighty three court ruling allowed the department of labor to rewrite its homework regulations he neglected to point out that the court questioned government's ability to enforce the fair labor standards act flsa in the seven apparel industries covered by the regulatory prohibition
the court identified four impediments to the effective enforcement of the minimum wage among homeworkers difficulty in locating and identifying workers inadequate or nonexistent record keeping difficulty in establishing and remedying violations and the strain on governmental resources
the impediments remain
after hearings last fall our subcommittee concluded that repealing the ban on industrial homework constitutes an abdication of the department's flsa responsibilities
miss kamali should be aware that this country will not allow any industry to blackmail workers with the threat of job exportation
mr. perkins must recognize the real threat of industrial homework an unprotected and exploited work force
rent a center incorporated said its board declared a three for two stock split payable april twentieth to shares of record april third
the operator and franchiser of appliance and furniture rental outlets said the stock split is its second it had a three for two split in march nineteen eighty six
the wichita kansas company hasn't ever paid a cash dividend
bud gates president and chief operating officer reiterated that the company expects to report record earnings and revenue for fiscal nineteen eighty seven ending july thirty first
in fiscal nineteen eighty six it earned a record nine point nine million dollars or eighty nine cents a share on record revenue of one hundred thirty eight point five million dollars
computer sciences corporation said the national aeronautics and space administration will award it a contract that will add about twenty five million dollars a year to its current computer services work for the agency
computer sciences will provide engineering and analysis services to the mission operations and data systems directorate at goddard space flight center in greenbelt maryland
the new contract will consolidate the company's work under three separate n. a. s. a. contracts that currently total about forty million dollars annually
the computer services concern said the contract expected to take effect november fifteenth could last ten years if all options are exercised and could total one billion dollars
about twenty five percent of contract revenue would go to subcontractors primarily the ford aerospace and communications corporation unit of ford motor company computer sciences said
in your tongue in cheek article on atlanta as the site of the nineteen eighty eight democratic national convention page one february thirteenth you described the carter presidential center noting that it houses the papers of the last democratic president
it is assumed for the sake of the efforts and aspirations of the delegates to the convention that the author meant the latest democratic president
or does he expect the democrats to go the way of the federalists of which john adams was the last to achieve the presidency
as an atlanta native recently exiled to chicago i could not help but wonder at your qualifications for judging barbecue
while you ferreted out such political hot spots as manuel's tavern in the finest journalistic tradition it boggles the mind that you missed the famous second state capital harold's barbecue at one hundred seventy one mcdonough boulevard in southeast atlanta
or sprayberry's barbecue in newman thirty miles south of atlanta off highway i eighty five
while as you note the taxi problem deserves immediate attention atlantans do tend to take barbecue more seriously and we rate our native recipes over those of other less refined southern states
in the controversy on these pages over who should be enshrined in the rock 'n roll hall of fame arts page february second letters february nineteenth the terms rock 'n roll and rock were often used interchangeably
there is quite a difference
true rock 'n roll is the music generated and performed during the rock 'n roll era primarily from the mid nineteen fifties to the very early nineteen sixties
on the other hand rock is a generic term given to the music of the kids in any subsequent era surf rock hard rock acid rock heavy metal rock and so on with rock 'n roll being the first generation of such music
all inductees into the hall of fame should be from the rock 'n roll era
if performers from soul blues surf and other genres are to be included the title of the institution should be the rock music hall of fame
hako minuteman incorporated said it completed its initial public offering of six hundred seventy five thousand common shares at ten dollars and fifty cents each
the addison illinois based maker of floor and carpet care equipment and chemical cleaning and coating products said net proceeds will be used to repay debt increase the size of its addison plant expand engineering and research facilities purchase equipment and for general corporate purposes
chicago corporation is lead manager of the underwriting syndicate
enviropact incorporated said it signed a letter of intent to acquire closely held willms trucking company charleston s. c. for twelve point five million dollars in cash notes and stock
enviropact said the proposed acquisition of willms a hazardous waste treatment and transportation concern will mark its entry into the business of directly hauling hazardous waste
enviropact an environmental services concern said it expects to complete the transaction in forty five days
frank b. hall and company reported a narrower fourth quarter loss and said its auditors qualified its financial statements because of two pending lawsuits
for the fourth quarter the insurance brokerage company posted a loss of twenty six point three million dollars compared with a loss of eighty seven point four million dollars in the year earlier quarter
revenue rose eleven percent to ninety nine point three million dollars from eighty nine point four million dollars
latest results included twenty four point two million dollars in losses from discontinued operations
during the quarter the company decided to sell its unprofitable claims adjusting and automobile dealer insurance services operations
year earlier results included a charge of eighty five million dollars mainly stemming from losses at its discontinued jartran incorporated truck rental unit
for the year the company had a loss of twenty two point five million dollars compared with a loss of one hundred ninety point five million dollars in nineteen eighty five that included one hundred ninety two million dollars in charges for jartran and other discontinued operations
revenue rose eight point four percent to three hundred ninety point nine million dollars from three hundred sixty point five million dollars in nineteen eighty five
a spokesman for hall said touche ross and company the auditors qualified the company's financial statements because of uncertainty over the outcome of the lawsuits
in the first suit new york state's superintendent of insurance is seeking one hundred forty million dollars in damages because of alleged fraud in the collapse of a hall unit union indemnity insurance company
in the second suit a unit of mutual of omaha insurance company is seeking damages of one hundred fifty million dollars from the company in a dispute over reinsurance agreements between the two concerns
with regard to the lawsuits hall said it has meritorious defenses and intends to vigorously defend itself
joseph w. ostrow formerly executive vice president director of communications services of young and rubicam incorporated was named executive vice president corporate director of media of this advertising concern
he suceeds frank j. gromer junior who retired
brock hotel corporation said it reached a preliminary agreement to acquire the operating restaurants of monterey house incorporated houston for ten million dollars to twelve million dollars
the hotel and restaurant chain said the agreement covers sixty one restaurants in the southwest
monterey house is operating under the protection of chapter eleven of the federal bankruptcy code permitting the company to do business while it works out a plan to pay creditors
brock said its agreement is subject to approval of the bankruptcy court in houston
separately brock said it expects a profit in nineteen eighty seven
in nineteen eighty six brock had an operating loss of six point eight million dollars and net income of twenty nine million dollars or seven dollars and forty one cents a share
in your front page article about arthur l. williams march fourth you said i have been ordained as an unofficial spokesman for the insurance industry
i have not been ordained and i speak only for myself
my research which often involves criticism of insurance practices i consider improper is intended for the benefit of the public
the research i have conducted on the williams organization during the past six years has been independent as has my research on other insurance topics
the opinions i have expressed about the organization are mine as are the opinions i have expressed about other insurance topics
my research has been motivated by outrage concerning the tactics of the organization
i believe it is against the public interest for part time representatives to advise consumers on a financial service as important as life insurance for life insurance policies to be replaced indiscriminately for an organization to make its relatively high cost insurance appear low in cost through deception and for competitors to be intimidated with threatening letters
don bolles an investigative reporter for the arizona republic was not murdered on june second nineteen seventy six as you reported in the lead of a front page article last february twenty third
don bolles was wounded on june second nineteen seventy six and succumbed to those wounds eleven days later
the federal government's budget deficit widened to twenty eight point three seven billion dollars in february from twenty four point five eight billion dollars a year earlier the treasury said
the deficit in january was two point one seven billion dollars
in its monthly statement for february the treasury said federal government receipts totaled fifty five point four six billion dollars up from fifty three point three seven billion dollars a year before but down from eighty one point seven seven billion dollars in january
outlays totaled eighty three point eight three billion dollars compared with seventy seven point nine five billion dollars a year earlier and eighty three point nine four billion dollars a month before
through the first five months of fiscal nineteen eighty seven which ends next september thirtieth the government has racked up a deficit of ninety three point nine two billion dollars compared with one hundred six point two billion dollars in the like period a year earlier
the reagan administration's most recent estimate for the fiscal nineteen eighty seven deficit is one hundred forty three point nine one billion dollars
the deficit for all of fiscal nineteen eighty six was two hundred twenty point seven billion dollars
the government paid thirteen point seven billion dollars in interest on the federal debt in february up from thirteen point four nine billion dollars in january
interdyne company said it agreed to supply a unit of zenith electronics corporation with tape drives and other memory systems
the maker of computer peripherals said it estimates total value of the contract will exceed ten million dollars in nineteen eighty seven
interdyne said the contract covers more than one year but declined to disclose details
glenview illinois based zenith's computer unit will use the interdyne products in manufacturing equipment for the u. s. government interdyne said
the quebec government authorized hydro quebec the provincially owned electric utility to increase its rates by four point six percent effective may first
the rate increase will apply equally to residential commercial and industrial customers of the utility
hydro quebec had sought approval for an average four point six percent rate increase but had proposed that the residential rate rise four point nine percent and other rates four point four percent
the government said that a uniform rate increase would be fairer to small consumers
the utility said it expects an additional one hundred nine million dollars canadian in nineteen eighty seven revenue from the rate increase
hydro quebec earned three hundred three million dollars on revenue of four point seven three billion dollars in nineteen eighty six
grumman corporation received a one hundred nine point one million dollar navy contract for e. a. six b. aircraft
general dynamics corporation was awarded a sixty seven point nine million dollar navy contract to develop improved submarine machinery
morton thiokol incorporated was issued a sixty one point four million dollar navy contract for rocket motors for standard missiles
boeing company received air force contracts totaling twenty two point one million dollars for anti satellite system development services and for electronic equipment for b. fifty two aircraft
texas instruments incorporated received an eleven million dollar army contract for laser range finders and test equipment
the institute for defense analyses won a ten point eight million dollar army contract for research and analysis
alexander cockburn's viewpoint column last week erroneously suggested that anne henderson pollard had been convicted along with her husband jonathan of spying for israel against the u. s.
in fact mrs. pollard pleaded guilty only to conspiracy to receive embezzled government property and unauthorized possession of classified documents
see viewpoint israel's pollard scandal arrogance not dual loyalty w. s. j. march nineteenth nineteen eighty seven
james g. cairns junior was elected to the board of this hotel and restaurant chain increasing membership to eight directors
mr. cairns is president financial institutions group at hallwood group a cleveland and new york based merchant banker that restructured brock hotel
the west german government said it will proceed today with the sale of its remaining twenty five point five five percent stake in veba a. g. an energy chemicals and trading group
a spokesman for deutsche bank a. g. one of the banks leading the placement said the government's ten point one million nominal shares will be priced at the equivalent of one hundred thirty six dollars and seventy cents each converting the west german mark at its current rate bringing the issue's total value to one point three eight billion dollars
the issue is one of germany's biggest
the shares will be sold at a small discount to veba's market price
veba rose eighty two cents to one hundred thirty eight dollars and sixty five cents on the frankfurt stock exchange friday
the announcement late friday contradicted rumors earlier last week that the finance ministry would postpone the sale because of the recent drop in german share prices
the government announced the sale of its veba holding in january when it expected to receive the current equivalent of between one hundred forty seven dollars and sixty five cents and one hundred sixty nine dollars and fifty cents for each share
that would have valued the holding at between one point four nine billion dollars and one point seven one billion dollars
but german share prices subsequently entered a prolonged slump
the center right government of chancellor helmut kohl has in recent years returned several large industrial stakes to the public sector
in nineteen eighty four the bonn government lowered its stake in veba to the current twenty five point five five percent from forty three point seven five percent
the government had planned to sell a sixteen percent stake in volkswagen a. g. later this year but following news of an alleged foreign exchange fraud that cost the auto maker as much as two hundred fifty nine million dollars finance minister gerhard stoltenberg said that the sale may be put off
the veba shares will be placed through a consortium of thirty eight german and thirty three foreign banks
about twenty percent of the government stake will be sold to foreigners
children's discovery centers of america incorporated monroe connecticut richard a. niglio was named chairman and chief executive officer of this operator of child care centers
mr. niglio forty four years old succeeds james desanctis who is leaving the company to pursue other interests
mr. niglio was formerly president and chief executive officer of victoria station incorporated a san francisco based restaurant chain
arnold diamond president of children's discovery centers is also leaving the company
a successor for him hasn't been named
de laurentiis entertainment group incorporated beverly hills california stephen r. greenwald forty six years old was named to the newly created post of chief operating officer of this motion picture concern
he continues as president of the company's corporate division
yasser arafat sends him magazines
ronald reagan sends him a typed list of all his film roles
moammar gadhafi sends him a book
ferdinand marcos writes back to him
so does lee iacocca and a saudi arabian king
no it's not frank sinatra
the recipient of all this attention is fifty two year old henry lohrengel junior of kansas city missouri who has spent most evenings for the past seventeen years deciding who among the rich and famous he would like to contact
and with the exception of farrah fawcett and ayatollah khomeini the rich and famous seem happy to answer
mr. lohrengel works days as a mail clerk
but at night he becomes a paparazzo a photographer of celebrities
that job however carries him no farther than his living room and the recliner in front of his television set
by his side is a tripod with a camera and a cable that ends in a plunger
when a celebrity comes on the screen who captures his fancy i squeeze the trigger he says
he then sends the photograph to the celebrity and waits
almost all his subjects autograph the picture and send it back to him sometimes accompanied by books and magazines and whatnot. he's still waiting to hear however from ms. fawcett and the ayatollah
just a few of his most prized contacts include lucille ball imelda marcos and elizabeth taylor
a photo he sent to actress ingrid bergman was returned with an autograph and a second photo of ms. bergman
she thought mine was a bit fuzzy he says
his approach never seems to fail
i've got a lot of millionaires and even a few billionaires he says not to mention a lot of knights and dukes
mr. lohrengel says few people besides his mother and co workers at the army corps of engineers are familiar with his collection which includes more than one thousand five hundred photos stuffed into albums shoe boxes and closets
one day however he hopes to donate his work to a museum
though he refuses to name a favorite mr. lohrengel admits to framing one picture which hangs in his living room
it is a signed photo of ronald reagan as he appeared in the film prisoner of war which mr. lohrengel says he saw on television in nineteen eighty when mr. reagan was running for president
but why doesn't he use a more recent photo
i don't really watch him that much anymore he says because i already have a good picture of him
financial regulators closed several thrifts and banks over the weekend including a texas savings and loan association with one point four billion dollars in assets
vernon savings and loan association vernon texas was closed and nearly all of its assets and deposits were transferred to a newly chartered institution to be run by federal regulators
the texas s. and l. commissioner closed vernon after finding that the thrift was insolvent and had substantially dissipated its assets through unsafe and unsound practices
vernon was a state chartered institution with nine offices in texas and one office in oklahoma
the new institution of the same name will be headquartered in dallas and begin operations today under management appointed by the federal home loan bank board which took over the failed thrift
the bank board said that ninety six percent or one point three billion dollars of vernon's loans were more than sixty days delinquent
the bank board said that vernon dissipated its assets by paying excessive compensation and dividends to its major officers and shareholders and purchasing a beach house and five airplanes for the use of executives
in the past five years vernon's assets increased more than tenfold the bank board said
the association's growth was fueled by solicitation of high cost brokered deposits and so called jumbo certificates of deposit
most of the proceeds of the association's deposit solicitation campaign were used to fund large speculative acquisition development and construction loans the bank board said in a release
separately the bank board closed first federal of maryland hagerstown because of insolvency
it had assets of one hundred fifteen million dollars
the thrift's four offices will reopen today as branches of columbia first federal savings and loan association washington d. c. which took over its insured deposits
first southern savings association of jackson county pascagoula mississippi also was closed over the weekend because it was insolvent
first southern was a state chartered stock association with fifty million dollars in assets and three offices
first southern's insured deposit accounts were transferred to magnolia federal bank for savings hattiesburg mississippi
the federal savings and loan insurance corporation provided funds to assist in the acquisition of bayou federal savings and loan association new orleans
first federal savings and loan association also of new orleans acquired bayou federal which had twenty six million dollars in assets
it was the seventh f. s. l. i. c. assisted transaction this year
morocco state bank morocco indiana was closed by state regulators and reopened on saturday as a branch of demotte state bank demotte indiana the federal deposit insurance corporation said
morocco had assets of fifteen million dollars and deposits of fourteen million dollars
on friday state banking authorities also closed madill bank and trust company madill oklahoma
its two offices will reopen today as branches of first american national bank of tishomingo oklahoma
madill had total assets of thirty seven million dollars when it was closed friday by state banking authorities
first american will assume deposits of about thirty seven million dollars in seven thousand two hundred accounts
new city bank orange california was closed friday by state banking authorities
its offices will reopen today as branches of colonial bank a newly chartered national bank also in orange
new city had assets of about twenty one million dollars
the latest closures bring the number of banks to fail this year to fifty
robert mcfedries junior director mergers acquisitions and divestiture was named to the additional post of vice president in the executive department of this chemical concern
in addition mr. mcfedries will continue as director portfolio investments and director investor relations
taxation is fast becoming an issue in the run up to the australian federal election likely to take place before the end of nineteen eighty seven
pressure for tax reform comes from a combination of high marginal tax rates on average incomes and rapid bracket creep
come july the three highest rates forty three percent forty six percent and fifty five percent will be replaced by two rates forty percent and forty nine percent
but most people will carry a heavier tax burden during nineteen eighty seven because inflation now running at an annual rate of twelve percent will push them into higher brackets
by the end of nineteen eighty seven the proportion of income earners paying tax at a marginal rate of forty percent or more will have reached almost one half ten years ago it was about one fifth
hardly any of the participants in the tax debate however are taking account of the positive revenue effects of lower tax rates
instead it is widely assumed that income tax cuts must be wholly financed by some combination of higher indirect taxes and cuts in public expenditure
this assumption virtually destroyed prime minister bob hawke's original tax reform policies
his government held a tax summit in nineteen eighty five to secure consent for its plans for a broad based consumption tax deemed necessary to offset large cuts in income tax
the summit was a failure since it was dominated by representatives of the many interests that stood to lose in the short term from any major shift to indirect taxation
collectively they vetoed the consumption tax
trapped by its own analysis the government made minor cuts in income tax rates and introduced new and unpopular taxes on fringe benefits and capital gains
but having generated community interest in tax reform and having politicized so many interest groups with its summit the government finds it has created a major issue without controlling the terms of the debate
recent events have served to focus the debate
first the premier of the state of queensland sir joh bjelke petersen has announced his intention to become australia's next prime minister and to implement a twenty five percent single rate income tax without any increases in indirect tax
sir joh's ambitions have received a serious setback with the failure of his candidates to win a single seat in the march northern territory assembly election
but the wave of popular support he has attracted across the nation has forced opponents to take the flat rate tax idea seriously
second treasurer paul keating has ended speculation that the labor government was planning to repudiate the outcome of the nineteen eighty five tax summit to introduce a consumption tax and to cut income tax rates substantially
in february he announced that no major reforms were planned he emphasized the need for tax stability at a time of economic difficulty noting that a consumption tax would drive the inflation rate to disastrous levels
given the government's commitment to holding expenditure at its existing level the implication was that any revenue increases would be devoted exclusively to reducing the budget deficit
this is also the purpose of the expenditure cutting financial statement the treasurer has since announced for may fourteenth
these priorities have been endorsed by a variety of australians and organizations from former deputy secretary to the federal treasury des moore to the australian institute for public policy and the australian chamber of commerce
in mandate to govern a recent study published by the latter two groups the argument was that spending cuts must come first
no doubt taxes are easier to reform in times of high economic growth
but then such growth will be slower to arrive without tax cuts and when it does the pressure for reform will be that much lower
another voice raised was that of the centre of policy studies cops an independent policy research institute attached to monash university melbourne
in february it published tax reform the next steps putting forth three options all of which envisage a top marginal tax rate of thirty percent
this tax cut would be accompanied by a range of additional fiscal measures including the removal of the existing tax free threshold from high income earners
the three options are as follows abolishing the threshold and appropriately redesigning the social security system using the american method of recapturing the threshold by a five percent tax surcharge over a high income range or by a flat broad based consumption tax of ten percent
at the launching of the report one of the authors noted that tax cuts should be partially self financing through benign incentive and revenue effects
but the cops strategy is based on the interlocking assumptions that tax cuts must be financed by expenditure cuts and that the voters will accept expenditure cuts only if they are compensated through tax cuts
the report recommends expenditure cuts of three point four two billion dollars five billion dollars australian for this particular purpose and a further two point oh five billion dollars to remove the current budget deficit
but however questionable the former of these assumptions may be the cops report does provide a comprehensive and much needed set of proposals for cutting the huge outlays on health education and welfare
the structure of the australian welfare state offers wide scope for such cuts
although like most western welfare systems it maintains the incomes of the poorest groups it does so in a highly inefficient way
the steady accumulation of spending programs especially those providing universal health and education services has resulted in much tax revenue being simply churned back into the pockets of the same taxpayers
but since the middle income groups stand to gain more in the immediate term from tax cuts than do the poor it should in principle be possible to get them off the state welfare rolls and into private provision
this would enable governments to target public assistance to the needy
the cops report actually proposes spending cuts in excess of eight point nine billion dollars
it finds six hundred eighty million dollars from replacing free higher education with student fees of between three thousand four hundred twenty four dollars and four thousand one hundred nine dollars annually
doing away with the universal medicare scheme would save six point eight billion dollars while preserving health related benefits for the medically needy and the lower income groups
welfare savings of one point three seven billion dollars could result from scrapping tax shelters for the well off from means testing family allowances and from reforming the unemployment benefit scheme
finally three hundred forty two million dollars might be saved by eliminating job creation schemes and training subsidies
the next move is up to the opposition liberal national coalition which has still not announced its tax policy
it could frustrate the government's hope of fighting the election on the issue of a consumption tax by adopting one of the cops tax cutting options that relies entirely on existing taxes
in addition the coalition could advance the tax debate considerably by stressing the revenue increases that could be expected from lower tax rates
in this way it could avoid having its timetable of tax reductions retarded by the inevitably slow pace of expenditure cuts
mr. james is senior lecturer in politics at la trobe university melbourne and a visiting research fellow at the centre for independent studies a sydney based public policy research institute
u. s.
budget official urges that more money be put in circulation to fill the pipelines. business page item
but the still small voice of the taxpayer asks
who's going to pay the piper
george o. ludcke
when for tranquility i'm striving
accused of recluse driving
arnold j. zarett
the scandal surrounding new york based defense contractor wedtech corporation has set the stage for congressional reviews of the small business administration's controversial eight a procurement program
the program which takes its name from the law that authorizes it allows minority owned businesses to obtain federal contracts without competitive bidding
the s. b. a. awarded a total of three billion dollars in such contracts last year
this week representative nicholas mavroules d. massachusetts who chairs a subcommittee of the house small business committee will introduce legislation to revamp the eight a program to reduce the potential for abuse
the goal is to preserve a worthwhile program while addressing some obvious problems through meaningful reform an aide to the congressman says
at the same time the senate small business committee is considering holding hearings later this spring that could lead to similar legislation in that chamber
the wedtech case has rekindled debate about the eight a program which since its inception in nineteen sixty eight has been plagued periodically by allegations of abuse
the most recurrent problem has been the establishment of front companies ostensibly owned by minorities but in reality controlled by whites
in a nineteen seventy nine investigation for example the s. b. a. found that twenty percent of the one thousand five hundred companies then participating in the program either weren't minority controlled or weren't disadvantaged
misuse of funds has also been a problem
one company that obtained eight a contracts later bought a racehorse that caught a cold and died
though the abuses have been real they have tainted the program's reputation to a degree that many feel is unwarranted
the interest in the program is usually triggered when something negative is in the air says gordon g. alexander the washington d. c. representative of a business group black corporate presidents of new england
that's unfortunate because these businesses are putting dollars into the economy
misunderstandings about the program also stem from the lack of any studies about its effectiveness in creating successful minority owned businesses
of the approximately three thousand nine hundred companies that have participated in the program nine hundred fifteen have graduated
but it isn't known how many of those graduates survived once they were forced to bid for work
the success rate should become clearer in the next month or so when the staff of the senate small business committee is expected to complete a survey of eight a graduates
a little over a year ago wedtech was considered one of the program's success stories
the company had grown from a small machine shop into a major maker of pontoons engines and other equipment that provided jobs for one thousand two hundred workers in the economically devastated south bronx
over the years wedtech got two hundred fifty million dollars of defense contracts under the eight a program
but last year state and federal prosecutors began investigating questionable company payments to politically connected law firms and consultants
a special prosecutor is still investigating lobbying on wedtech's behalf by former white house aide lyn nofziger
eventually wedtech officials admitted bribing government officials paying off unions forging invoices to the government and defrauding shareholders
in december the company sought court protection from creditors under the bankruptcy laws halted operations and dismissed its workers
under new management the company has since rehired about two hundred eighty workers and resumed limited production
the legislation proposed by representative mavroules is intended to eliminate the potential for many of the abuses attributed to wedtech while simultaneously strengthening s. b. a. policies aimed at ensuring that young minority companies in the program ultimately can stand on their own
on the side of preventing abuses for example the bill would increase fines for individuals who set up front companies to three hundred thousand dollars from fifty thousand dollars
it would sharply limit the number of political appointees at the s. b. a. who make decisions about eight a awards
and it would bar s. b. a. employees from owning stock in eight a companies
on the business development side the legislation would double the length of time a company could participate in the program to fourteen years
more significant it would establish a three phase process for weaning the company from dependence on the program
initial reactions to mr. mavroules's bill generally have been favorable
i think it would go a long way to preventing future wedtechs says mr. alexander the representative of the black corporate presidents group
adds ella mae horse an organizer of the national native american chamber of commerce i think it can only help the minority contractors
the republican response to the mavroules bill has been more qualified
massachusetts representative silvio o. conte the ranking republican on the mavroules subcommittee says he supports the provisions cracking down on abuse
but through an aide he expresses reservations about doubling the participation period
the aide says mr. conte intends to submit a bill of his own that would make significant changes in the eight a program including eliminating the role the s. b. a. plays as a middleman between procuring agencies and contractors
still mr. conte says through a spokesman we think the time is right for eight a reform
we view it in one way
mr. mavroules views it another way
we're sure we can reach a compromise
representative spokesmen for the town of washington were saying after the president's thursday evening news conference that it was workmanlike
sounds a lot like the real world to us
if so the rest of the country should welcome the president the politicians and the press back to the daily work of making this country move in a forward direction
there has been legitimate reason to wonder recently where we were all going
the cover of last week's new republic headlined an article by gail sheehy is reagan senile
this is a partisan but not entirely off the wall question in light of mr. reagan's past several months major prostate surgery in january the breaking of the iranamok story the president's extraordinarily inept news conference about the affair months of staff turmoil at the white house
it was cause to wonder
thursday someone asked mr. reagan if at any time he had been told about or knew about the diversion of iran related funds to the contras
he said number
you would have heard me if i had been told that at any time
when messrs.
north and poindexter have immunity they will either affirm or demolish mr. reagan's position
if they affirm then iranamok's political dimension despite some residual damage is over
the reagan presidency will be free to move forward
notwithstanding the news conference's great interest in the iran affair other subjects came up the budget taxes s. d. i. and the a. b. m. treaty nicaragua
it would be a sign of renewed community health if washington were now able to focus its energies on the substance as well as the surface of these issues
we have come more and more to wonder whether the townspeople of washington would rather deal with real issues that inhere in public policy or whether they would just as soon pirouette across the political surface of public events
there seems to be something about ronald reagan that creates an abiding interest in whether he personally will stumble over various policy matters
certainly the nation's interest should be larger than zero in whether the president stumbles
but the nation should also know more about mr. reagan's thursday night assertion that the soviet union had no intention in nineteen seventy two of letting its own missile defense plans be constrained by the language or legal standing of the a. b. m. treaty
similarly the president renewed his promise to veto tax rate increases
tax rates in the new tax code are of course what house speaker jim wright wants to raise to solve congress's struggles with budget reduction
others in washington don't much care where new revenues come from
below the dancing politics of the budget however are substantive issues many people would surely be interested in
the current budget is essentially a zero sum accounting game pitting special interest coalitions against each other for what money is available
again we don't doubt that the degree of the president's steadfastness against taxes is itself a fascinating personal story
but the larger issue mr. reagan is raising here is whether the federal sector has arrived at the outer limits of its responsibilities and must now redeploy those duties among itself the states and the private sector
if congress can't let go if it insists on some funding for all of its creations with new revenue washington will sink back into the swamp of special interests it's lived in for fifteen years
beyond strategic defense and the budget there is much else of importance to occupy the productive efforts of the president and washington
there is trade friction with japan international monetary policy and debt management the question of whether the u. s. wishes to integrate its financial and securities markets into the global market or withdraw behind a wall of regulations
there is the future of the farm crop support system and the need for clarity on the issue of whether a second communist state off the u. s.'s southern border matters or is irrelevant
getting past the iran affair in short is a precondition to getting the u. s. moving forward again
the president's news conference was a much needed step in that direction
on friday the u. s. food and drug administration gave formal approval to the aids drug called a. z. t.
this effectively means that any doctor may prescribe a. z. t. subject to availability for any patient suffering from aids or its related diseases
the f. d. a.'s approval culminates one of the most dramatic episodes in the history of u. s. regulation of medical science
in the new language of drug approval a. z. t. was fast tracked
it was shoved through a regulatory approval system that couldn't find a way to serve both the needs of the dying and the needs of bureaucracy
when aids became the biggest medical story of our time the bureaucracy ran out of excuses and the federal government made sure that any drug showing real medical benefit would be sped through the regulatory apparatus
the result is friday's approval of a. z. t.
and now tomorrow the food and drug administration should announce its approval of tissue plasminogen activator or t. p. a. t. p. a. is a bioengineered substance that is fed intravenously into a heart attack victim
it seeks out the victim's blood clot and dissolves it thereby renewing the critical flow of blood to the victim's heart and reducing destruction of the heart's tissue
in tests it has worked for many heart attack victims
it should be approved
in saying the f. d. a. should approve this drug tomorrow we don't mean pretty soon
we mean tomorrow march twenty fourth eight thirty a. m.
two years ago this week the new england journal of medicine reported that a multicenter test of heart attack victims and t. p. a. had been abruptly halted that february by officials at the national heart lung and blood institute
they stopped the test because t. p. a. was proving nearly two times as effective at opening clotted arteries recanalization as streptokinase a drug that is already approved by the f. d. a.
in its new england journal article the study's doctors wrote tissue type plasminogen activator can lead to recanalization without the risk cost or delay associated with streptokinase
that was two years ago
according to the american heart association's most recent annual figures some one point five million americans will have a heart attack more than five hundred thousand will die of their heart attack
what possible reason can have justified denying t. p. a. to those among this extraordinarily large number who would have benefited from it
why has a. z. t. been approved while t. p. a. hasn't been approved
a. z. t. can have significant toxic side effects but aids patients are willing to take that risk
t. p. a. in recent studies has been associated with stroke caused by bleeding into the brain among one percent to two percent of the trial's patients
surely many heart attack patients would willingly assume that risk just as seriously ill people accept low percentages of risk with serious surgical procedures
and over time physicians will learn to reduce and manage such risks
indeed back in october nineteen eighty five a medical panel advising blue shield of california said t. p. a. should be recognized as acceptable medical practice
ten days ago the f. d. a. announced that within three months it would codify rules to speed the availability of promising experimental drugs
this important breakthrough in regulatory common sense may bring enormous benefit to this country's most seriously ill people
but friday's approval of a. z. t. shows that large needs don't have to wait for new rules
with well over a thousand americans dying daily of heart attacks the need for t. p. a. is large and immediate
political washington may be inching forward but the stock market well what can you say
it raced across the two thousand three hundred border friday closing at two thousand three hundred thirty three point five two
there had been fears that friday's witching hour would cast a pall on this progress
it all reminds us of a young friend who spends hours with a difficult video game called ultima three
the difficult trick is to get four of your men through endless horrors until each one reaches a level of strength adequate to carry them on to victory
defeat from ultima's monster can be immediate and swift
this brave young fellow would consider nothing else of course than to press cautiously forward
to the players staring now at two thousand four hundred on the big board take heart
a campaign by dixons group p. l. c. to acquire cyclops corporation stalled as the british concern facing a challenge from the securities and exchange commission had to reopen its tender offer for the pittsburgh based company
london based dixons an electrical appliance retailer had claimed victory over a group of competing bidders after snaring fifty four percent of cyclops's four point three million shares outstanding with a three hundred eighty four million dollar or ninety dollar and twenty five cent a share tender offer that expired wednesday
but dixons disclosing objections from the s. e. c. agreed on friday to reopen its offer until twelve oh one a. m. this wednesday
the extension enables cyclops holders who have already tendered their shares to recall them and tender to a competing group of bidders led by audio slash video affiliates incorporated a dayton ohio based consumer electronics retailer
s. e. c. objections revolved around dixons's last minute decision to waive a condition that eighty percent of shares outstanding be tendered dixons said
the british concern dropped the requirement wednesday after its tender offer attracted only a modest majority of cyclops shares
officials of cyclops a specialty steel maker and consumer appliance and electronics retailer and morgan stanley and company which advised dixons in the transaction declined to comment
dixons said in a prepared statement that it agreed to the extension in order to settle the dispute and to expedite completion of the offer although the company does not agree with the s. e. c.'s position
meanwhile the bidding stakes for cyclops heated up as the audio slash video group raised its tender offer friday to ninety two dollars and fifty cents a share
among other things the group conditioned its offer on receipt of the same confidential financial data cyclops management provided dixons
in agreeing last month to be acquired by dixons cyclops rebuffed an earlier bid of eighty dollars a share from the audio slash video group which also includes citicorp capital investors limited a citicorp unit
it's like trying to play poker with a deck of marked cards stuart rose audio slash video chairman and chief executive officer said of his group's inability so far to look at cyclops's internal financial records
i can't understand what the downside is in cyclops' showing it to us said mr. rose adding that several cyclops holders not audio slash video had complained to the s. e. c. about dixons's waiver of the eighty percent tender requirement
reopening of dixons's tender offer effectively postpones for now the british retailer's effort to take control of cyclops
shortly after its tender expired wednesday dixons began moving to pay tendering holders and took charge of cyclops's board placing three dixons executives on the board and accepting resignations from seven cyclops directors
also on friday in a lawsuit filed by audio slash video a federal judge in dayton ohio denied the company's request for an order forcing cyclops to provide audio slash video with information provided to dixons
judge walter h. rice also denied a motion for a temporary restraining order that would enable cyclops holders to recall shares previously tendered to dixons
audio slash video's mr. rose said the latter request was moot following dixons' extension of its tender
dixons terming the lawsuit frivolous said it will seek dismissal of the action
audio slash video's revised bid was announced as the stock market closed on friday
in new york stock exchange composite trading friday cyclops shares rose one dollar and fifty cents to ninety dollars and fifty cents
the lure of cyclops for both suitors is its silo incorporated retailing division which operates a nationwide chain of appliance and consumer electronics stores
dixons plans to retain silo and sell cyclops's steel and nonresidential construction businesses
separately halcyon investments a new york securities partnership said it bought a seven point one percent stake in cyclops's shares outstanding for investment purposes
in an s. e. c. filing the partnership said it holds two hundred eighty eight thousand cyclops shares purchased february sixth to march thirteenth for eighty four point one eight nine dollars to ninety three point two six two dollars each
a canadian parliamentary committee proposed that credit card issuers use a uniform method of calculating interest on credit card balances
the committee in a report to parliament also urged the government to apply pressure to banks and other credit card issuers to lower their excessive rates
but it said ceilings on interest rates shouldn't be imposed at this time
canada's minister of state for finance tom hockin welcomed the committee's report and said the government would act soon to enact some of the measures proposed by the house commons finance committee
the committee said its proposed standard method for calculating interest on credit card balances should allow for a grace period the period within which any credit extended may be repaid without incurring interest charges
the method would allow any partial payment to be credited toward the interest bearing balance
and it would recognize the timing of payments so that a payment made one day late wouldn't lead to financing charges for a full month
the committee also called for wider and uniform disclosure of credit card interest rates and other card terms to improve the information consumers have about pricing and promote competition
of thirty four cards examined by the committee annual interest charges in mid march ranged from ten point two five percent to twenty eight point eight percent
but the committee said that the numerous methods used to calculate interest and other fees makes it difficult for card holders to compare costs
although the committee didn't recommend interest rate ceilings be enforced immediately reginald stackhouse a progressive conservative committee member said ceilings could be imposed by parliament as a last resort
committee chairman don blenkarn called on canada's major banks to lower immediately their visa and mastercard rates by three percentage points which he said was equivalent to a drop in rates announced recently by toronto dominion bank canada's fifth largest bank
in toronto a spokesman for royal bank of canada canada's largest bank said we feel our rate at the present level is competitive and acceptable
he said royal bank charges an eighteen point six percent annual rate on its visa credit card holders' balances outstanding
secretary of state shultz is crying wolf in warning of a crisis if congress cuts the administration's proposed twenty billion dollar foreign affairs budget for fiscal year nineteen eighty eight
while it is too early to know how congress will react it is clear that given its need to meet the gramm rudman deficit target congress is unlikely to approve more than this year's foreign affairs budget of seventeen point three billion dollars and may cut even deeper
the current level is adequate to cover the most urgent needs but only if congress and the administration are willing to break loose from political constraints and allocate the limited funds to the most deserving programs
last year congress lopped four point two billion dollars off the administration's proposed foreign affairs budget of twenty one point five billion dollars without anything very serious happening
while there were some substantial reductions within the foreign aid programs that constitute more than three fourths of the foreign affairs budget these cuts were more severe than necessary since neither congress nor the administration was willing to take the political heat of cutting back the five point three billion dollars going to israel and egypt
congress cut the largest slice two point eight billion dollars from security assistance
this includes foreign military sales f. m. s. loans military assistance economic assistance for security related purposes and smaller programs for foreign military training and peace keeping operations
the greater part of the two point eight billion dollars saving however is more illusion than reality
while on the face of it congress cut f. m. s. financing one point seven billion dollars this reduction was taken by eliminating one point eight billion dollars in treasury rate financing
untouched were the three point nine billion dollars in concessional credits offered at subsidized rates which are usually two point five percent to three percent below the cost of money to the treasury
this is a shell game at the expense of the taxpayer
while the cuts look good in the short run since total outlays are reduced and the budget balance is helped over the long run deficits will be larger because of lower receipts
the shift to concessional financing marks a further departure from the economic criteria that should be used to establish a country's need for military aid and the degree of concessionality it receives
this year and under the proposed nineteen eighty eight budget for example greece and spain countries whose economies have in the past been judged strong enough to pay the treasury rate will receive concessional loans
another worrisome trend is the increasing reliance on grant military aid
this is the most expensive form of military aid and was virtually eliminated during the carter administration
yet last year congress approved nine hundred million dollars in grant military aid the highest level since the end of the vietnam war
for fiscal nineteen eighty eight the administration is requesting one point three billion dollars
this shift toward grants and concessional loans partly reflects an effort to compensate for reduced f. m. s. financing by offering better terms
the shift also aims to avoid increasing the debt burdens some countries incurred when they took on large f. m. s. loans financed by the federal financing bank at high interest rates
as annual repayments on those loans become a serious burden for some countries the clamor for debt relief has increased and defaults have dissipated the guaranty reserve fund once maintained against such defaults
israel has the largest f. m. s. debt burden one point one billion dollars in fiscal nineteen eighty eight but it is essentially relieved of repayment since it receives economic supporting assistance in the form of cash aid that is sufficient to cover its payments
moreover since payment of all of the one point eight billion dollars provided annually in new f. m. s. financing is forgiven making it in effect a grant israel is not building up any new f. m. s. debts
egypt like israel is not required to repay its one point three billion dollars in new military aid
only part of its eight hundred million dollars in economic supporting assistance however is in cash
this means that after meeting five hundred million dollars in payments on past military loans egypt has little u. s. economic aid left to support its economic development
the reagan administration has been searching for a debt relief formula that would not trigger a general assault on the u. s. treasury
outright forgiveness has been rejected as too costly
the administration also rejected refinancing the eighteen billion dollars in outstanding f. m. s. loans financed by the federal financing bank because of the risk that it would open the door to refinancing the rest of the bank's one hundred fifty billion dollars in outstanding mostly domestic loans
as an alternative the administration has proposed a restructuring of outstanding high interest f. m. s. loans that would bring interest rates down to the current seven percent to eight percent range
this proposal would bring near term relief on interest payments but the deferred interest would be added to the principal balance and would come due at the end of the payment period in ten to twenty years
the borrowing countries would then face massive balloon payments that many might not be able to pay
the administration is also offering countries that can afford to do so the option of pre paying their high interest f. m. s. loans
this seems more likely to help the countries least needing relief such as south korea thailand greece and spain than those whose debt burdens are the most onerous
the prospect that some countries will take advantage of the option to pay off their outstanding high interest loans has near term advantages for budget estimates
the nineteen eighty eight budget for example assumes that the administration will be able to manage the restructuring so that the positive effects of prepayments will override the negative effects of reduced interest payments giving a positive twenty six million dollars
this is in contrast to estimated shortfalls of seven hundred seventy million dollars in nineteen eighty seven and one point seven billion dollars in nineteen eighty nine
such are the government's ingenious schemes for manipulating deficit estimates
of the administration's proposed twenty billion dollar foreign affairs budget for nineteen eighty eight fifteen billion dollars would go to foreign aid
of that fifteen billion dollars thirty eight percent is for development aid up from the administration's request of thirty three percent last year
this is due largely to a four hundred thirty five million dollar increase for multilateral development banks. bilateral development aid remains essentially unchanged at three point three billion dollars
while this shift in favor of development aid appears to reflect a departure from the administration's past emphasis on security related aid it is probably more a response to congress's tendency to cut security assistance more severely
moreover while the administration is requesting one point four billion dollars less in security aid than last year the saving is offset by greater concessionality
outright grants increase from seventy five percent to eighty five percent and all f. m. s. financing is at concessional interest rates
under democratic leadership congress is not likely to favor an increase in security aid at the expense of bilateral development aid
the greatest cuts are likely to be made in security assistance and a proposed substantial increase for multilateral development banks a proposal that representative david obey d. wisconsin chairman of the foreign operations subcommittee of the house appropriations committee said earlier this month doesn't stand a chance of a snowball in hell
although it is unlikely to increase military grants by nearly fifty percent as proposed by the administration congress might be tempted to go along with some increase in grants as well as greater concessionality in f. m. s. loans especially if the outlay effects can be masked by prepayments of past f. m. s. loans
but greater concessionality is a move in the direction of higher costs and prolonged dependency exactly the wrong direction for our security assistance program
instead congress should hold the line by rejecting any increase in security assistance especially in grants and by requiring that concessional f. m. s. financing be offered only where economic criteria justify it
lacking any broad consensus on the purposes of foreign aid and unwilling to take on domestic supporters of key recipients such as israel egypt and greece congress is unlikely to give the administration much leeway in allocating the available funds
if as seems all too likely congress cuts foreign aid again while maintaining current earmarks it will further distort a program in which aid to israel and egypt equals u. s. bilateral and multilateral aid to the rest of the world
but this is to be expected of a foreign aid program that lacks a coherent rationale and is largely devoted to satisfying the efforts of special interests to protect the aid levels of a few favored countries
while congressional pressures on overall aid levels coming largely from the budget and appropriations committees have forced some overdue cuts few knowledgeable persons in either the administration or congress would argue that the resulting program represents a sound allocation of the limited resources available
little is likely to be done about this in the dying years of the reagan administration
but it is not too soon for congress to initiate a comprehensive critical reappraisal of foreign aid
mr. shaw who teaches international law at george washington university was chief of the military assistance branch of the office of management and budget from nineteen sixty seven to nineteen eighty
the british colony's stock market has displayed sharp volatility recently after an easy climb to new heights earlier in the year
in the first half of march the hang seng index which tracks thirty three major stocks plummeted more than eleven percent from the record two thousand nine hundred thirty nine point oh five registered march third
the string of losses ended abruptly wednesday though when the indicator rebounded nearly ninety five points or about three point five percent in a single session
the index edged lower again thursday but surged fifty nine point two seven points friday to close the week at two thousand seven hundred eighty point five five
although earnings related trading and overseas investors alike have played a role in the recent turbulence essentially it is a transient technical reaction to a february rally that saw the hang seng index climb nearly fifteen percent hong kong securities analysts say
brokers as well as analysts expect stocks to settle into a steady upward trend again soon backed by strong economic and financial fundamentals
when the dust finally settles we expect this market to pick up considerably says david harman an equities manager at berisford cresvale far east limited a british securities firm
following february's solid performance mr. harman says a normal correction of some size could have been expected and in fact was overdue
the correction was exacerbated by its timing coming just as major companies were reporting last year's results
people usually sell into results in hong kong mr. harman says
earnings for major companies listed on the colony's stock exchange so far are up at least thirty percent on average in line with local expectations
but news that several big groups were planning reorganizations and rights issues spurred profit taking
among the companies seeking to raise money through such issues are hongkong and shanghai banking corporation jardine matheson strategic holdings limited hongkong land company and new world hotels limited
the total cost of those proposed issues to shareholders will be about the equivalent of eight hundred ninety seven point three million dollars
rights issues contributed to the market's recent slump by forcing local investors to skim profits from their portfolios to finance their portions of the issues says stuart cook a director of research at the hong kong office of james capel and company a british securities firm owned by hongkong bank
very soon now the issues should be well and truly discounted in the market mr. cook says
local investors who have been pushing the market lower often are quicker to adjust their positions than foreign investors he says
many of market's foreign participants started investing only in the past several years and since august in particular when tokyo's stock market faltered
so they aren't accustomed to the rapid pace of share turnover practiced by many local institutions
this is one of the world's busiest markets a broker says noting that the average daily turnover has increased about sevenfold from a year ago
if hong kong's average daily turnover of one hundred eighty two million dollars persists in a year the equivalent of nearly three quarters of the exchange's total capitalization of around sixty point two four billion dollars will change hands
still even though locals generally trade their portfolios more frequently much of that liquidity derives from the recent foreign investment
and because foreign institutions have been buying heavily most were unwilling to take on additional shares to prop up the market when local selling knocked it lower this month
nor would the foreign houses sell and take losses at the market's lower levels so volume has declined even as the market's volatility has increased
the market should emerge from its current volatility soon and head higher analysts say noting that the economic fundamentals backing the market are among the strongest in asia
hong kong is the only market in asia with rapidly improving fundamentals says john c. quinn a director of chase manhattan trust company's hong kong office
we don't see any big downside risk here
a chief factor supporting the market is hong kong's strong export driven economy which should grow at least six percent this year after swelling around nine percent last year the colony's government says
the stability of the local currency which is officially linked to the u. s. dollar at a rate of seven point eight hong kong dollars to one and relatively low interest rates which have bolstered local property prices considerably in the past year are chief factors as well
fundamentally hong kong is one of the strongest markets in the world says caspar li an assistant director of research at vickers da costa and company a brokerage owned by citicorp
mr. li though cautions that unexpected political news always poses a threat to the stock market in the british territory which will revert to chinese sovereignty in nineteen ninety seven
when chinese communist party leader hu yaobang was removed abruptly from his post in january amid student demonstrations in china hong kong's stock market shuddered noticeably dropping more than three percent in one day
investors ended a two day respite that followed tuesday's unveiling of the british budget
they expect retail issues to benefit from the budget's personal tax cuts and the drop in british banks' lending rates a trader said
and the benefits of lower mortgage costs resulting from falling interest rates a drop in money supply and stable inflation will be larger than the gains from tax cuts the trader said
foreign demand wall street's performance thursday and buying ahead of the new trading quarter which starts today helped as well traders said
the gold mines rose twelve points to three hundred sixty two point four
meanwhile tokyo's nikkei stock average which fell sixty point seven four points thursday rose thirteen point three five to twenty one thousand six hundred fifty seven point six seven in heavy trading friday on a late rally in heavy industrial and mining issues
the stock exchange index rose two point three nine to one thousand eight hundred sixty point seven oh
volume was about one point five billion shares up from one point four billion thursday
the tokyo exchange was closed saturday as part of its regular holiday schedule
here are price trends on the world's major stock markets as calculated by morgan stanley capital international perspective geneva
to make them directly comparable each index is based on the close of nineteen sixty nine equaling one hundred
the percentage change is since year end
charles t. russell used to play trombone in pittsburgh burlesque houses and with big bands in the southeast
he gave it up for banking but he still knows how to attract a crowd
mr. russell the president of visa international a bank owned credit card association recently urged members to consider halting sales of american express company services in retaliation for the financial service giant's recent decision to begin offering a new cut rate credit card
consumer groups denounced the plea as an illegal restraint of trade and congress is considering an inquiry
but mr. russell is resolute
banks need to realize that there is a fox in the henhouse he declares
visa and the fifty six year old mr. russell who enjoys riding a harley davidson motorcycle have collided with consumers and congress before
critics have long alleged that visa member banks and other card issuers inflate interest rates
as in past years congress is currently considering imposing rate ceilings and some consumer groups think such a law would be an appropriate response to mr. russell's recent harangue
but the push in congress has fallen short in the past with mr. russell's plain talk helping to lead the opposition
he is more vociferous but his statements probably reflect the general thought of the leading card issuers says pete hart a first interstate bancorp executive vice president
forewarned first interstate which offers american express gold cards and travelers checks is reevaluating our relationship with american express according to mr. hart
nothing rash is planned he says but the new card optima is without question an intrusion into our business
american express and the banks are used to being allies rather than adversaries
american express cards generally don't offer revolving credit and banks have marketed them alongside their visa and mastercard cards which do
american express says only a limited number of existing customers will be offered the new card
it doesn't expect to issue many more than two million of them by nineteen ninety compared with about one hundred million current visa card holders
it doesn't know what the fuss is all about
we are not basically in the credit business says an american express spokesman
we're going after a select market
but the elite group that american express is targeting has been a major source of bank credit card earnings
banks also believe that the american express estimates are too modest and some fear a plastic rate war
they aren't going to fail says mr. russell
i don't admire their ethics but i certainly respect their knowledge
he thinks american express is misleading consumers arguing that the optima rate is closer to eighteen percent when the tie in with the regular card is considered
the flap comes at a time when visa and its members have few other reasons to complain
there are twenty two percent more visa card holders world wide than there were two years ago
the group which furnishes members with new products system support and other services is developing computerized cards and new links with automated teller machines
for the banks credit cards have been a growing source of profits although tax changes and a growing consumer debt load portend possibly slower future growth
in orchestrating visa's expansion mr. russell has hit a few wrong notes with bankers and competitors
two years ago he led the opposition against a merger proposal from rival mastercard an idea that some bank issuers of both cards thought would cut costs for them and consumers
his comments about american express also have some precedent
last summer as part of a campaign to blunt another budding competitor visa encouraged members to refuse to honor sears roebuck and company's discover card in their automated teller machines
along the way critics believe consumers have been cheated
card rates haven't fallen nearly as sharply as other interest rates since nineteen eighty
current rates also reflect a jump in write offs of bad credit card loans which some banks have brought upon themselves through aggressive marketing
mr. russell argues that usury laws depressed rates below market levels years ago making current rates seem high
he also says critics ignore administrative costs in their rate attacks
the steeper write offs he contends stem more from lax bankruptcy laws and heavy unemployment in the major oil producing states than indiscriminate card marketing
while mr. russell faces possible congressional and justice department investigations into his american express comments he says visa welcomes the attention
we've nothing to hide never had adds the executive who joined visa in nineteen seventy one
like scores of musicians he put down his horn when television arrived in the nineteen fifties
while hunting for a music store job one day in nineteen fifty three a rainstorm forced him to take cover at a branch of what is now p. n. c. financial corporation
the bank hired him as a collector in its installment loan department
he married a former pittsburgh radio singer who he used to back up in the band
weather permitting mr. russell commutes every day from his novato california home in his single engine airplane
the twenty minute flight helps him forget his troubles
you can't think about anything else when you're flying he says
when i fly home i don't have a problem anymore
president reagan plans to name susan liebeler to the u. s. court of appeals for the federal circuit the u. s. international trade commission said
mrs. liebeler an independent is i. t. c. chairman
she was a professor at loyola law school in california prior to her appointment to the i. t. c. in nineteen eighty four
the appointment is subject to senate confirmation
an investment group including mutual shares corporation said it holds five point one percent of unicorp american corporation's common as an investment
in a securities and exchange commission filing the group including the new york investment company said it holds five hundred fifty five thousand fifty seven shares including fifty nine thousand eight hundred purchased january twenty third through february sixth for fourteen dollars to fourteen dollars and thirty seven cents each
unicorp american a new york real estate and financial services company couldn't be reached for comment
the company's shares rose twelve point five cents a share to fourteen point one two five dollars in american stock exchange composite trading friday
pan am corporation reported a one hundred ninety seven point five million dollar fourth quarter loss worse than it had predicted and said it expects to post a deficit in the first quarter
the fourth quarter loss included sixty five million dollars of charges mainly because of certain start up costs of the pan am shuttle which began hourly service in the northeast corridor last october expenses related to the termination of leases of eight boeing seven forty seven one hundred aircraft and expenses related to pan am's sale of its pacific division to u. a. l. incorporated parent of united airlines in nineteen eighty five
in the nineteen eighty five fourth quarter pan am had net income of two hundred forty one point four million dollars or one dollar and seventy nine cents a share which included a three hundred forty one million dollar gain from the pacific division sale
without that gain pan am would have reported a nineteen eighty five fourth quarter loss of about one hundred million dollars
in the nineteen eighty six fourth quarter revenue declined twelve percent to seven hundred ninety seven point three million dollars from nine hundred six point seven million dollars in the year earlier quarter
in mid february c. edward acker pan am's chairman and chief executive officer had said the company expected a loss of more than four hundred million dollars for nineteen eighty six indicating a fourth quarter deficit of more than one hundred thirty five million dollars
he also had said that the company would be diligent in writing off costs such as residual expenses associated with the pacific division sale
the airline blamed the year's losses on recent weak airline travel in atlantic markets caused by the american public's concern over terrorism abroad and the chernobyl nuclear accident
the airline said that it would report a loss for the first quarter but that it would be substantially less than the one hundred eighteen point four million dollar deficit it posted in the first quarter of nineteen eighty six
for all of nineteen eighty six pan am reported a loss of four hundred sixty two point eight million dollars compared with nineteen eighty five net income of fifty one point eight million dollars or forty five cents a share
revenue declined thirteen percent to three point oh four billion dollars from three point four seven billion dollars
pan am said its full year results were hurt by foreign currency exchange losses of forty six point eight million dollars primarily related to japanese yen debt compared with eleven point one million dollars in nineteen eighty five
a pan am spokesman said the airline is nearing completion of its previously announced arrangement for a new line of financing
pan am said it has received a proposal from citicorp investment bank for a one hundred fifty million dollar credit line that will include a syndicate of other financial sources
he said pan am currently has in excess of one hundred fifty million dollars in cash
pan am said that based on advance reservations second quarter traffic should be vastly improved from a year earlier
mr. acker previously said pan am would take major steps to become profitable in nineteen eighty seven contingent on obtaining major reductions in labor costs
pan am recently said it will slash its operating expenses as much as two hundred seventy five million dollars including cutting four hundred sixty four management positions freezing management salaries and reducing other expenses under management's control
pam am has asked its five major labor unions to help cut labor costs twenty percent or an additional one hundred eighty million dollars a year
in seeking concessions from its unions pan am has said the airline might sell the shuttle operation to help return to profitability
even with these measures pan am still faces a number of obstacles as it seeks to control costs and find ways to repay massive debt tied to aircraft purchases
at the end of nineteen eighty six long term debt totaled eight hundred thirty million dollars
although the airline generally isn't considered a likely merger candidate a. m. r. corporation the parent of american airlines has looked at pan am but recently said it wouldn't buy the company or the shuttle service
pan am has refused to sell a. m. r. its valuable north atlantic routes
pan am's unions meanwhile are trying to find another merger partner for the company
they have made their own cost cutting proposals but the two sides haven't reached any agreements
huge billion dollar leveraged buyouts l. b. o.s were a major feature on the nineteen eighty six financial landscape
this year names like viacom international incorporated and owens illinois incorporated continue to steal headlines as tax reform and takeover fears fuel l. b. o. announcements and speculations
yet behind the headlines is the fact that well over two hundred of the approximately three hundred fifteen l. b. o.s announced in nineteen eighty six were divestiture l. b. o.s in which overgrown conglomerates sold parts of their empires to division managers
where managers are resourceful and energetic and believe in their capabilities as directors and owners rather than as employees l. b. o.s have worked well
after the glow of pride fades from lining up the numbers and putting the deals together what can corporate managers expect to find as the new owners of their former company stores
one serious threat to success is the inability of some managers to make the transition from company men to entrepreneurs
others become so absorbed with cost cutting and debt reduction that they forget to reinvest in the underlying business
many managers also miss the abundant opportunities for reducing operating costs in areas where they have no technical competence such as pensions medical programs and insurance
substantial savings can be realized in each of these areas without reducing benefits or coverage
but the biggest danger in going private lies in management becoming close mouthed
many buyout groups react to freedom from quarterly earnings statements and shareholders by constructing moats around their companies
building real value whether a firm is public or private means not only communicating company strategy to employees but talking with outsiders as well
in nineteen seventy nine i was a group president of mead corporation in charge of virginia based stanley furniture company stanley was healthy but had not achieved its full potential as part of a big paper company
when i studied the situation i quickly realized that mead would be better off without the one hundred twenty million dollars contributed by furniture and fabric sales and that stanley would be better off without mead's corporate structure
stanley no longer fit mead's strategy
it was also clear to me that furniture divisions of large corporate entities usually did not perform well
therefore stanley's managers opted for a leveraged buyout
the risks our buyout group faced seven years ago were enormous personally and professionally
none of us was wealthy
we all had to take out second mortgages to help finance our investments in stanley
interest rates had surged beyond twenty percent and business was in its worst slump since world war two. gone were the security perks and resources of the parent company
if the venture failed the two thousand jobs that supported the economy of stanleytown virginia would disappear along with our investment
but i was confident that a revitalized stanley even as a highly leveraged enterprise could prosper
as an owner i learned that we needed to do more than agree on management objectives we had to communicate our resolve to everyone working at stanley
this came to a head during an early planning session when a production manager asked what company policy was on a particular matter
i don't know i said
it's our company now we have to create the policy
from that point on we set in motion an open door communications program to get both our managers and employees thinking like spirited owners
this type of aggressive dialogue wasn't necessary under corporate rules where everyone knew his place but it was an essential ingredient in our new company
i made a special effort to keep our banks informed of our progress much the way the chief executive officer of a public company gives updates to securities analysts
we discussed the results of marketing plans and new products with the banks and improved their feelings of confidence toward us at critical stages of our development
similarly we kept the press customers and local officials informed of company developments
when i had been a division president i rarely had time to spend with retailers but as a manager owner it was important for me to keep customers informed of our long range plans
we also didn't forget stanleytown
civic programs such as scholarships and recreational facilities were maintained and in many cases enhanced
in essence stanley was a private company with a public profile
our dialogue with employees extended to company finances as well
we opened the books to all managers and they in turn began to appreciate what cash flow was all about
soon they were no longer talking about what they had to have but about what they no longer needed
we also set up performance incentives that reached well down the chain of command incentives based on long term profitability not just revenue growth
companies that undergo leveraged buyouts must learn quickly to cope with their problems in order to maximize cash flow and pay off debts without compromising growth
many of the executives in these newly created private companies will protest that they don't have the time or resources to waste on communicating their goals
but it is the obligation of management groups to talk candidly to employees and the outside world especially during the early stages following a buyout
that's when the greatest opportunity exists to shape an l. b. o. company into an entrepreneurial enterprise
mr. timnick former chairman and c. e. o. of stanley interiors corporation is a principal of the new york based private investment firm clayton and dubilier incorporated
banque de l'union europeene said it signed an agreement with two institutions in the soviet union that is designed to aid the formation of joint ventures under new soviet rules
the french bank an arm of the state owned credit industrial and commercial financial group said it will work with the soviet state bank and the bank for foreign trade to create a bilateral institution whose aim is to promote the creation of and aid the functioning and finance of mixed capital companies in the u. s. s. r.
roy d. hartmann said he will take early retirement as a security pacific corporation vice chairman and chief of its california retail banking and real estate operations
mr. hartmann has worked for security pacific for thirty three years
a federal bankruptcy judge approved a complex bank financing agreement for l. t. v. corporation that gives the company a new one hundred million dollar credit line
approval of the agreement between the dallas based aerospace energy and steel concern and its twenty two member bank group had been delayed since january
the amended plan approved by judge burton lifland in new york friday resolves certain objections by l. t. v.'s unsecured creditors and the pension benefit guaranty corporation a federal pension insurance agency that has taken over l. t. v.'s four big steel pension funds
since last july l. t. v. has been operating under chapter eleven of the u. s. bankruptcy code while it works out a plan to pay its debt
one of the objections from the pension agency concerned that part of the financing agreement that repackages about four hundred thirty five million dollars of secured debt and letters of credit
